Rene Angelil, the husband and former manager of Celine Dion, has died aged 73, the singer has announced.
Mr Angelil, who Dion married in 1994 and with whom she has three children, died at home in Las Vegas from cancer.
Dion took two career breaks to look after Mr Angelil after he was diagnosed with throat cancer, first in 2000.
Mr Angelil was born in Montreal in 1942. After managing groups in Canada, he was approached to manage Dion by her parents when she was aged 12.
Last year, Dion told USA Today she was preparing for her husband's death.
"When it hits me, it's going to hit me," she told the newspaper in August 2015. "But my biggest job is to tell my husband, we're fine. I'll take care of our kids. You'll watch us from another spot."
The Montreal Gazette says he mortgaged his house to finance her first album.
She has recorded 25 studio albums, and is the fifth-best-paid recording artist in the world, with a value of some $630m (£437m).
In 1999, her song My Heart Will Go On, from the soundtrack of the film Titanic, won two Grammy awards.
She has been a regular performer at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas since 2003.
She returned to performing last year after a year-long hiatus to look after Mr Angelil. He stepped down as her manager in 2014.
Share this story About sharing
There are at least three winning tickets in the US for the record $1.6bn (£1.1bn) lottery jackpot, officials have said.
The winning tickets in the Powerball jackpot were sold in California, Tennessee and Florida.
The previous draw was the 19th without a grand prize winner, which requires all six numbers to match.
Officials said it would take several hours to know if there were any other winning tickets.
The identity of the winners is not yet known.
Thousands of people queued up outside shops across the US on Wednesday, hoping to defy the odds of 292.2 million to one.
California Lottery tweeted that the winning ticket in the state was sold at a 7-Eleven store in Chino Hills, a suburb east of Los Angeles.
Television pictures showed a cheering crowd gathering at the shop after the result was announced.
The winners will share a prize of $1.586bn. They can collect their winnings in annual payments over 29 years, or opt to share a lump-sum payment of $930m.
The government will also share in the big prize, however, levying a 39.6% federal income tax on the winners - and the payout will also be subject any taxes that the winners' home states may impose.
