Anonymous drives Nissan offline in dolphin hunting protest
Two of Nissan's main websites have been driven offline by a cyber-attack.
The Japanese carmaker said it had suspended its global and Japanese sites early on Wednesday after they had been bombarded with traffic.
Hacktivists linked to the Anonymous collective have claimed responsibility. They tweeted the attack was "punishment" for Japan's killing of whales and dolphins.
Nissan has said that it has no view on such hunting activities.
Over recent weeks, Anonymous has struck against the websites of the Japanese president and other government departments in protest against the animals' deaths.
This follows related cyber-attacks against Icelandic institutions in November as part of the same OpWhales campaign, which resulted in most of the country's government sites being made unavailable for about 13 hours.
Awareness campaign
One of the hackers claiming responsibility for the attacks explained why Nissan had been targeted.
hey are a big corporation in Japan, and we have targeted big corporations to spread awareness about the killing [of dolphins] in the cove in Taiji because the Japanese news is censoring it," he said.
"As a note for Nissan, we are not out to harm your customer data or system data."
The attack coincides with the Detroit Auto Show, where Nissan unveiled a concept pickup van on Tuesday.
The company's US and European websites remain online.
"At Nissan, customer privacy and security is of utmost importance, and we take any potential threat to our information systems seriously," said a spokesman.
"Because of a potential distributed denial of service [DDoS] attack, we are temporarily suspending service on our websites to prevent further risks.
"Nissan continuously monitors and takes aggressive steps to ensure the protection of our information systems and all of our data."
Share this story About sharing
Officers said they believed they had apprehended a key member of the group DD4BC, while another suspect was also in custody after raids.
Forces from various European countries, including Scotland Yard detectives, worked together on the operation.
The group is accused of taking down companies' websites and demanding ransoms to stop.
Its name, which stands for Distributed Denial of Service for the online currency Bitcoin, is an apparent reference to its alleged tactics.
In September last year, a report from the net firm Akamai alleged that the group had carried out more than 140 attacks in the previous 10 months on banks, media groups and gaming firms.
Europol said that "key members of the organised network" were tracked to Bosnia-Herzegovina by officers from the Metropolitan Police, who were working with the European Union's law enforcement agency.
Raids
On 15 and 16 December, officers from Austria, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Germany, as well as those from the United Kingdom, worked together to carry out raids.
They were assisted on "Operation Pleiades" by their colleagues from Australia, France and Japan, as well as Romania, USA and Switzerland. The international agency Interpol also helped, Europol said.
In a statement released on Tuesday, it added that the operation "resulted in the arrest of a main target and one more suspect detained. Multiple property searches were
