Primaries where pupils must live next door: More than 100 schools admit only taking children who lived within a two-minute walk last year as demand for places intensifies
Primary schools now require children to live within 300 yards of the gate
Fox Primary School has tightest admission within 107 yards of the school
Research was done by FindASchool, a new school-checking service
By ELEANOR HARDING, EDUCATION CORRESPONDENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL
PUBLISHED: 00:13 GMT, 14 January 2016 | UPDATED: 00:39 GMT, 14 January 2016


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398402/Primaries-pupils-live-door-100-schools-admit-taking-children-lived-two-minute-walk-year-demand-places-intensifies.html#ixzz3xBXPodEU
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook

Dozens of primary schools now require children to live within 300 yards of the gate to win a place, according to new research.
More than 100 schools admitted only pupils living within a two-minute walk last year as competition intensifies for the most popular primaries.
This year, the situation is likely to worsen as the demand for limited places grows following a baby boom fuelled by migration.
Ahead of tomorrow’s deadline for primary school place applications, new data has emerged which show the worst pressure points in the country.


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398402/Primaries-pupils-live-door-100-schools-admit-taking-children-lived-two-minute-walk-year-demand-places-intensifies.html#ixzz3xBXVIsnf
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
Fox Primary School has the tightest admission area where children must live within 107 yards of the school (file image)
The school with the tightest admission area was Fox Primary School in Kensington and Chelsea, where children must live within 107 yards of the school.
It is rated ‘outstanding’ by Ofsted and lists ballerina Darcey Bussell and Tony Benn’s daughter Melissa as former pupils.
It is followed closely by Beech Hyde Primary School and Nursery in Wheathampstead, Hertfordshire, Dundonald Primary School in Merton, South London, and Cromwell Junior and Infant School and Nursery Class in Birmingham.
The findings come amid mounting evidence that places at the best schools are being taken by children whose parents are rich enough to own properties nea


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398402/Primaries-pupils-live-door-100-schools-admit-taking-children-lived-two-minute-walk-year-demand-places-intensifies.html#ixzz3xBXWtSFa
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on FacebookHouse prices near good schools tend to be higher than elsewhere in areas, and some families are reported to have resorted to renting flats near good schools at a premium price in order to secure a place.
The research was carried out by FindASchool, a new school-checking service run in collaboration with 192.com, which helps parents identify data about local schools.
Founder Ed Rushton said: ‘It’s not just living too far from the school that sees parents missing out on a place - the complexity of the admissions system can also cause problems.’
A significant proportion of the schools with tiny admissions areas are in London, but a number are scattered across the rest of the count


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398402/Primaries-pupils-live-door-100-schools-admit-taking-children-lived-two-minute-walk-year-demand-places-intensifies.html#ixzz3xBXYxCEa
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook

Marshlands Primary School in East Riding of Yorkshire has an area of 179 yards, while Netherthorpe School in Derbyshire has one of 202 yards.
Other schools in the list are in Gloucestershire, Wolverhampton, Nottingham, Bristol, Bradford, Kent, Essex and Darlington.
FindASchool is the first service to display Successful Applicant Areas – the area where you needed to live last year to get a place at the school of your choice.
It also includes exam results, class sizes, Ofsted scores and the all-important admission criteria.
Last year, up to one in five infants in some parts of England missed out on their top choice of primary school, while in parts of London this rose to more than a quarter.
In 2014 Wiltshire, Hampshire, Essex, Brighton, East Sussex, and Poole were just some of the local authorities that saw an increase in the number of parents not getting their first ch


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398402/Primaries-pupils-live-door-100-schools-admit-taking-children-lived-two-minute-walk-year-demand-places-intensifies.html#ixzz3xBXb2LNB
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
