Follow the money
Is this really the biggest?
The previous jackpot record was a March 2012 drawing of the US lottery Mega Millions which had a $656m (£457m) prize shared by three winners. Spain's El Gordo is the world's biggest lottery in financial terms - its prize in 2015 totalled €2.24bn ($2.43bn; £1.68 bn). But as there is no single jackpot - the same series are printed in multiple tickets - anyone who has the numbers wins a share of the prize. In Europe, the largest lottery prizes have been lower than in the US, but the jackpots are given as a lump sum rather than as an annuity and most countries do not tax the winnings. The biggest European prize was won in July 2011 by a ticketholder in the UK. That person took home a lump sum of $260m (£161.7m).
Where do Powerball profits go?
Back to the participating states. For example, New Jersey has sold more than $50m in tickets during this current jackpot craze, and lottery officials said about $20m of that would return to the state. More than 15 states use the profits to fund education. However, schools aren't expecting a huge windfall. California officials estimate the lottery money accounts for about 1% of the state's education budget. In Wisconsin, the profits go towards lowering property taxes.
How did the jackpot get so big?
No-one has won the draw since 4 November. The prize is based on ticket sales so high jackpots usually create a snowball effect until a winning combination is picked. A new format introduced in October makes these massive jackpots more likely, meaning more records could be broken in future.
Six of the 50 US states do not participate in the lottery, so some residents drive for hours to other states to buy tickets.
Alabama, Mississippi and Utah cite religious reasons, while Alaska has said it would not be economical in such a sparsely populated state.
In Hawaii, proposed legislation to start participating fails consistently, and in Nevada the lottery is rejected because the state's world-famous casinos prefer not to have competition.
Alps avalanche deaths: Teacher faces manslaughter charge
A French teacher is under investigation for manslaughter after he apparently led schoolchildren onto a closed ski run shortly before a deadly avalanche.
Police are waiting to take the teacher into custody. He was seriously injured in the disaster and remains in hospital.
Two pupils and a Ukrainian tourist were killed when the avalanche struck in the Les Deux Alpes on Wednesday.
Warnings were in place after heavy snow in recent days.
The two students who died were a boy of 14 and a 16-year-old girl from Saint-Exupery high school in Lyon.
The Ukrainian man who was killed was not part of the school group.
"We have to interview the hospitalised teacher as soon as we can," Grenoble prosecutor Jean-Yves Coquillat told reporters on Thursday.
"The question is: Why were they skiing on a closed piste?"
A huge rescue operation was launched after the avalanche struck the group of 10 teenagers, their teacher and the Ukrainian, 57, on the Bellecombe piste at about 15:45 local time (14:45 GMT) on Wednesday.
The piste, which has the most difficult black rating, had been closed since the beginning of the ski season because of a lack of snow, a manager at Les Deux Alpes told local media.
Following large quantities of snow, the avalanche risk level was raised to three on a scale of five.
Officials said the danger had been well signposted on the piste, with netting blocking the top. The run is said to be situated on a particularly icy north-facing side of mountain.
But the teacher and students appear to have deliberately gone past the signs and started skiing downhill, Mr Coquillat said.
A group of people skiing above the school party on the mountain may have triggered the avalanche, he added.
Earlier French Education Minister Najat Vallaud-Belkacem promised the investigation would "throw all light" on the circumstances of the tragedy.
Visiting the students' school, the minister expressed her condolences to the victims' families and urged their peers to "stay strong".
As well as the three who died, two other pupils were found injured and the teacher was unconscious after suffering multiple broken bones.
The teacher remains seriously ill in hospital but all other members of the party are now "safe and sound", according to the French interior ministry (in French).
Students and their families lit candles and laid tributes as remaining members of the ski party returned to the school in Lyon on Wednesday evening.
French President Francois Hollande offered "sincere condolences" to the victims' families and said "the solidarity of the whole nation" was with them.
Four other people - two Lithuanians, a Spaniard and a Czech - have died since the New Year in avalanches in the French Alps, AFP reports.
The regional government has urged skiers and other mountain users to take extra care and stay on marked pistes.
Are you in Les Deux Alpes area? Do you know anyone who has been affected by this avalanche? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk
If you are willing to speak further to a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number.
Email your pictures to yourpics@bbc.co.uk, upload them here, tweet them to @BBC_HaveYourSay or text 61124. If you are outside the UK, send them to the international number +44 7624 800 100.
Or WhatsApp us on +44 7525 900971
Read our terms and conditions.
Or comment below.
