Attack
A Distributed Denial of Service attack takes down a website by overwhelming it with traffic. Once a critical point is reached, users will find the site difficult to access. The group is accused of co-ordinating such attacks and demanding money to cease them, thereby allowing normal traffic to flow to the targeted website once more.
The attacks "remain a considerable threat in the European Union and beyond", Europol said.
"This type of extortion attack has become a well-established criminal enterprise and has affected thousands of victims globally, with the number of unreported incidents believed to be much higher. The absence of reporting by private companies and individuals poses particular difficulties in law enforcement's efforts to prosecute these cyber-threats."
It said that the DD4BC group was "exploiting the increasing popularity of pseudonymous payment mechanisms and has been responsible for several Bitcoin extortion campaigns since mid-2014".
'Ransom'
According to police, DD4BC "primarily targeted the online gambling industry, but has recently broadened their activity to the financial services and entertainment sector as well as other high-profile companies. Businesses that pay the ransom to the blackmailers risk appearing vulnerable and being targeted again for a higher amount."
Wil van Gemert, Europol's deputy director of operations, said: "These groups employ aggressive measures to silence the victims with the threat of public exposure and reputation damage."
Shares of GoPro plunged as much as 28% in after-hours trading after the wearable camera maker announced revenue forecasts below expectations.
The firm forecast revenue of $435m (£302m) in the fourth quarter, well below market expectations of $512m.
It also said a 7% cut to its workforce of 1,500 employees would cost up to $10m in restructuring costs.
Disappointing sales of its action cameras over the holiday season were a major factor behind the lower forecast.
The Silicon Valley-based company said its sales were also hit by a decision to cut the price of its Hero4 Session camera.
"Fourth-quarter revenue includes a $21m reduction for price protection related charges resulting from the Hero4 Session repricing in December," the firm said in a statement on Wednesday.
In October, GoPro had said there was weaker-than-expected demand for the device because of its initial high price.
The company has also been facing stiff competit
