David Bowie 'has been secretly cremated in America without friends or family present' after telling loved ones he didn't want a funeral
The 69-year-old singer was cremated in New York 'without any fuss'
He told family before his death he wanted to be remembered for his music
David Bowie died on Sunday after an 18-month battle against cancer
The music legend released his final album just days before he passed away
By DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE
PUBLISHED: 23:20 GMT, 13 January 2016 | UPDATED: 00:45 GMT, 14 January 201


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398425/David-Bowie-secretly-cremated-America-without-friends-family-present-telling-loved-ones-didn-t-want-funeral.html#ixzz3xBWr6uvR
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
David Bowie 'has been secretly cremated in America without friends or family present' after the star told loved ones he did not want a funeral.
The singer died of cancer on Sunday after spending 18 months fighting the disease after receiving his diagnosis.
It is understood the 69-year-old's body was cremated shortly after his death on Sunday 'without any fuss'.
Scroll down for video


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398425/David-Bowie-secretly-cremated-America-without-friends-family-present-telling-loved-ones-didn-t-want-funeral.html#ixzz3xBX7c0u5
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
good times and his music.
He explained his wishes to his family and wife Iman, 60, about what should happen after he died.
One source said: 'In many respects you don’t need a memorial or service to remember David by...you have his music instead.
'He would have wanted to just disappear with no fuss, no big show, no fan-fare. This would totally be his style.
'His last album Blackstar was very much his goodbye to fans inst


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398425/David-Bowie-secretly-cremated-America-without-friends-family-present-telling-loved-ones-didn-t-want-funeral.html#ixzz3xBXC1HQo
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on FacebookBowie released his last album Blackstar on January 8, his 69th birthday, and just a couple of days before his death.
Despite his decision not to have a funeral, a number of memorial concerts are being held for Bowie, while next month's Brit Awards will be dedicated to the London-born singer.
It is understood the cremation cost between £480 and £630.
He is believed to have undergone a 'direct cremation' which would have entailed his remains being collected and taken to the cremation  without any ceremony


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398425/David-Bowie-secretly-cremated-America-without-friends-family-present-telling-loved-ones-didn-t-want-funeral.html#ixzz3xBXF3f1M
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
The album, which has been described as a memorial for his fans, is likely to top the US music charts this weekend, the first time Bowie has ever had a number one album across the Atlantic.
According to industry figures, some 2.5 million people streamed songs from the work after it was released on Friday.
Blackstar looks certain to hold on to the UK number one spot this Friday with just under 90,000 combined sales since its release last Friday on Bowie's 69th birthday.
And it could reach the apex of the US Billboard albums chart this Sunday, with sales of 130,000 expected this week as it rivals 25 by Adele, which has been number one for seven weeks.
Meanwhile figures from global streaming service Spotify show there was a jump of 2,822 per cent in Bowie songs played in the hours following the announcement that he had died from cancer.
The top five Bowie songs streamed yesterday on Spotify were Heroes (up 3,630 per cent), Let's Dance (up 3,942 per cent), Blackstar (up 1,120 per cent), Lazarus (up 1,084 per cent) and Life On Mars (up 4,238 per cent)
Bowie tracks also made up five of its UK Top Ten, and nine of the UK Top 20. Prior to news of his death, he had 4million monthly listeners on Spotify, which rose to 6.5million today.
Three retrospectives of work by Bowie - who lived his last years in New York but enjoyed more mainstream success in Britain - and three original albums have all broken into the UK Top 40.
A spokeswoman for the Creative Agents Agency in New York who represented Mr Bowie said they had no comment on his cremation arrangements.


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3398425/David-Bowie-secretly-cremated-America-without-friends-family-present-telling-loved-ones-didn-t-want-funeral.html#ixzz3xBXHtGY7
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
